Update waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md (#6068)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-itpro-docs: windows/deployment/update/waas-manage-updates-configuration-manager.md

> # Deploy Windows 10 updates using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager

Reviewer: I think we should apply the updated name format throughout, although it could be questionable when it comes to the page title.
```suggestion
# Deploy Windows 10 updates using Configuration Manager
```

Author: Hm, regarding the title i suspect the product group might want to keep the full product name. Then again i'm easly overruled :P

Reviewer: Fair enough. I am not an expert on this topic, I just noticed that there is an increasing in-house trend to modernize the name to "Configuration Manager" without any prefixes.

Author: A quick search seems to point to the heading in articles containing the full name, whereas the "Applies to" has the short name, although there are discrepancies towards the naming. Probably most likely due to the fairly new name and the fact that it takes a while to update all ocurrences. 
That being said, i'm about as far removed from the product group as you can get, so all i should do is listen to others ;)

Reviewer: Very well, thanks for the update and extra info. I think we should leave this as is, so please just mark this conversation as resolved. :-)

**Applies to**

- Windows 10

> **Looking for consumer information?** See [Windows Update: FAQ](https://support.microsoft.com/help/12373/windows-update-faq)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Due to [naming changes](waas-overview.md#naming-changes), older terms like CB and CBB might still be displayed in some of our products, such as in Group Policy. If you encounter these terms, "CB" refers to the Semi-Annual Channel (Targeted)--which is no longer used--while "CBB" refers to the Semi-Annual Channel.

> Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager provides maximum control over quality and feature updates for Windows 10. Unlike other servicing tools, Configuration Manager has capabilities that extend beyond servicing, such as application deployment, antivirus management, software metering, and reporting, and provides a secondary deployment method for LTSC clients. Configuration Manager can effectively control bandwidth usage and content distribution through a combination of BranchCache and distribution points. Microsoft encourages organizations currently using Configuration Manager for Windows update management to continue doing so for Windows 10 client computers.

Reviewer: The new name format is usually "Configuration Manager" only (based on pages linked from this page and other current PRs):
```suggestion
Configuration Manager provides maximum control over quality and feature updates for Windows 10. Unlike other servicing tools, Configuration Manager has capabilities that extend beyond servicing, such as application deployment, antivirus management, software metering, and reporting, and provides a secondary deployment method for LTSC clients. Configuration Manager can effectively control bandwidth usage and content distribution through a combination of BranchCache and distribution points. Microsoft encourages organizations currently using Configuration Manager for Windows update management to continue doing so for Windows 10 client computers.
```

You can use Configuration Manager to service Windows 10 devices in two ways. The first option is to use Windows 10 Servicing Plans to deploy Windows 10 feature updates automatically based on specific criteria, similar to an Automatic Deployment Rule for software updates. The second option is to use a task sequence to deploy feature updates, along with anything else in the installation.

> [!NOTE]

> > This topic focuses on updating and upgrading Windows 10 after it has already been deployed. To use Configuration Manager to upgrade your systems from the Windows 8.1, Windows 8, or Windows 7 operating system, see [Upgrade to Windows 10 with Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/deployment/upgrade/upgrade-to-windows-10-with-system-center-configuraton-manager).

Reviewer: I suggest using the page title of the linked page. I think it is the recommended codestyle (but I could be wrong).
```suggestion
> This topic focuses on updating and upgrading Windows 10 after it has already been deployed. To use Configuration Manager to upgrade your systems from the Windows 8.1, Windows 8, or Windows 7 operating system, see [Perform an in-place upgrade to Windows 10 using Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/windows/deployment/upgrade/upgrade-to-windows-10-with-system-center-configuraton-manager).
```

## Windows 10 servicing dashboard

> The Windows 10 servicing dashboard gives you a quick-reference view of your active servicing plans, compliance for servicing plan deployment, and other key information about Windows 10 servicing. For details about what each tile on the servicing dashboard represents, see [Manage Windows as a service using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service).

Reviewer: The new name format is usually "Configuration Manager" only:
```suggestion
The Windows 10 servicing dashboard gives you a quick-reference view of your active servicing plans, compliance for servicing plan deployment, and other key information about Windows 10 servicing. For details about what each tile on the servicing dashboard represents, see [Manage Windows as a service using Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service).
```

For the Windows 10 servicing dashboard to display information, you must adhere to the following requirements:

> - **Heartbeat discovery**. Enable heartbeat discovery for the site receiving Windows 10 servicing information. Configuration for heartbeat discovery can be found in Administration > Overview > Hierarchy Configuration > Discovery Methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Heartbeat discovery**. Enable heartbeat discovery for the site receiving Windows 10 servicing information. Configuration for heartbeat discovery can be found in **Administration** > **Overview** > **Hierarchy Configuration** > **Discovery Methods**.
```

> - **Windows Server Update Service (WSUS)**. Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager must have the Software update point site system role added and configured to receive updates from WSUS

Reviewer: Minor adjustments:
```suggestion
- **Windows Server Update Service (WSUS)**. Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager must have the Software update point site system role added and be configured to receive updates from WSUS.
```

> - **Windows Server Update Service (WSUS)**. Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager must have the Software update point site system role added and be configured to receive updates from WSUS.

Reviewer: (As previously described:)
```suggestion
- **Windows Server Update Service (WSUS)**. Configuration Manager must have the Software update point site system role added and be configured to receive updates from WSUS.
```

  - Minimum a WSUS 4.0 server with the hotfix KB3095113 installed.
- **Service connection point**. Add the Service connection point site system role in Online, persistent connection mode.
- **Upgrade classification**. Select **Upgrade** from the list of synchronized software update classifications.

    **To configure Upgrade classification**

>     1. Go to Administration > Overview > Site Configuration > Sites, and then select your site from the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Go to **Administration** > **Overview** > **Site Configuration** > **Sites**, and then select your site from the list.
```

Regardless of the method by which you deploy Windows 10 feature updates to your environment, you must start the Windows 10 servicing process by creating collections of computers that represent your deployment rings. In this example, you create two collections: **Windows 10 – All Current Branch for Business** and **Ring 4 Broad business users**. You’ll use the **Windows 10 – All Current Branch for Business** collection for reporting and deployments that should go to all CBB clients. You’ll use the **Ring 4 Broad business users** collection as a deployment ring for the first CBB users.

> [!NOTE]
> The following procedures use the groups from Table 1 in [Build deployment rings for Windows 10 updates](waas-deployment-rings-windows-10-updates.md) as examples.

### To create collections for deployment rings

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Assets and Compliance > Overview > Device Collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Assets and Compliance** > **Overview** > **Device Collections**.
```

1. On the Ribbon, in the **Create** group, click **Create Device Collection**.

1. In the Create Device Collection Wizard, in the **name** box, type **Windows 10 – All Current Branch for Business**.

1. Click **Browse** to select the limiting collection, and then click **All Systems**.

1. In **Membership rules**, click **Add Rule**, and then click **Query Rule**.

1. Name the rule **CBB Detection**, and then click **Edit Query Statement**.

1. On the **Criteria** tab, click the **New** icon.

    ![Example of UI](images/waas-sccm-fig4.png)

1. In the **Criterion Properties** dialog box, leave the type as **Simple Value**, and then click **Select**.

1. In the **Select Attribute** dialog box, from the **Attribute class** list, select **System Resource**. From the **Attribute** list, select **OSBranch**, and then click **OK**.

    ![Example of UI](images/waas-sccm-fig5.png)

    > [!NOTE]

>     > Configuration Manager discovers clients’ servicing branch and stores that value in the **OSBranch** attribute, which you will use to create collections based on servicing branch. The values in this attribute can be **0 (Current Branch)**, **1 (Current Branch for Business)**, or **2 (Long-Term Servicing Branch)**.

Reviewer: minor readability/interpretation detail:
```suggestion
    > Configuration Manager discovers clients’ servicing branch and stores that value in the **OSBranch** attribute, which you will use to create collections based on that servicing branch. The values in this attribute can be **0 (Current Branch)**, **1 (Current Branch for Business)**, or **2 (Long-Term Servicing Branch)**.
```
( I was pondering whether "the servicing branch" or "that servicing branch" makes the most sense — I decided on the latter. Feel free to discuss/dispute/suggest a different wording.)

Reviewer: By the way: This is pre-existing text, not previously edited by you.

1. Click **Summary**, and then click **Next**.

1. Close the wizard.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Windows Insider PCs are discovered the same way as CB or CBB devices. If you have Windows Insider PCs that you use Configuration Manager to manage, then you should create a collection of those PCs and exclude them from this collection. You can create the membership for the Windows Insider collection either manually or by using a query where the operating system build doesn’t equal any of the current CB or CBB build numbers. You would have to update each periodically to include new devices or new operating system builds.

After you have updated the membership, this new collection will contain all managed clients on the CBB servicing branch. You will use this collection as a limiting collection for future CBB-based collections and the **Ring 4 Broad broad business users** collection. Complete the following steps to create the **Ring 4 Broad business users** device collection, which you’ll use as a CBB deployment ring for servicing plans or task sequences.

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Assets and Compliance > Overview > Device Collections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Assets and Compliance** > **Overview** > **Device Collections**.
```

1. On the Ribbon, in the **Create** group, click **Create Device Collection**.

1. In the Create Device Collection Wizard, in the **name** box, type **Ring 4 Broad business users**.

1. Click **Browse** to select the limiting collection, and then click **Windows 10 – All Current Branch for Business**.

1. In **Membership rules**, click **Add Rule**, and then click **Direct Rule**.

1. In the **Create Direct Membership Rule Wizard** dialog box, click **Next**.

1. In the **Value** field, type all or part of the name of a device to add, and then click **Next**.

1. Select the computer that will be part of the **Ring 4 Broad business users** deployment ring, and then click **Next**.

1. Click **Next**, and then click **Close**.

1. In the **Create Device Collection Wizard** dialog box, click **Summary**.

1. Click **Next**, and then click **Close**.

## Use Windows 10 servicing plans to deploy Windows 10 feature updates

> There are two ways to deploy Windows 10 feature updates with Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager. The first is to use servicing plans, which provide an automated method to update devices consistently in their respective deployment rings, similar to Automatic Deployment Rules for software updates.

Reviewer: (As per the previous suggestions)
```suggestion
There are two ways to deploy Windows 10 feature updates with Configuration Manager. The first is to use servicing plans, which provide an automated method to update devices consistently in their respective deployment rings, similar to Automatic Deployment Rules for software updates.
```

### To configure Windows feature updates for CBB clients in the Ring 4 Broad business users deployment ring using a servicing plan

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Software Library\Overview\Windows 10 Servicing, and then click **Servicing Plans**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Software Library** > **Overview** > **Windows 10 Servicing**, and then click **Servicing Plans**.
```

1. On the Ribbon, in the **Create** group, click **Create Servicing Plan**.

1. Name the plan **Ring 4 Broad business users Servicing Plan**, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Servicing Plan page**, click **Browse**. Select the **Ring 4 Broad business users** collection, which you created in the [Create collections for deployment rings](#create-collections-for-deployment-rings) section, click **OK**, and then click **Next**.

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > Microsoft added a new protection feature to Configuration Manager that prevents accidental installation of high-risk deployments such as operating system upgrades on site systems. If you select a collection (All Systems in this example) that has a site system in it, you may receive the following message.
    >
    >![This is a high-risk deployment](images/waas-sccm-fig9.png)
    >

>     >For details about how to manage the settings for high-risk deployments in Configuration Manager, see [Settings to manage high-risk deployments for Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/mt621992.aspx).

Reviewer: Would you be able to edit line 161/158 (2 lines up from here) to add a MarkDown compatibility space, like this one?
```suggestion
    > For details about how to manage the settings for high-risk deployments in Configuration Manager, see [Settings to manage high-risk deployments for Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/core/servers/manage/settings-to-manage-high-risk-deployments).
```

1. On the **Deployment Ring** page, select the **Business Ready (Current Branch for Business)** readiness state, leave the delay at **0 days**, and then click **Next**.

    Doing so deploys CBB feature updates to the broad business users deployment ring immediately after they are released to CBB.

    On the Upgrades page, you specify filters for the feature updates to which this servicing plan is applicable. For example, if you wanted this plan to be only for Windows 10 Enterprise, you could select **Title**, and then type **Enterprise**.

1. For this example, on the **Upgrades** page, click **Next** to leave the criterion blank.

> 1. On the **Deployment Schedule** page, click **Next** to keep the default values of making the content available immediately and requiring installation by the 7-day deadline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the **Deployment Schedule** page, click **Next** to keep the default values of making the content available immediately and requiring installation by the seven-day deadline.
```

1. On the **User Experience** page, from the **Deadline behavior** list, select **Software Installation and System restart (if necessary)**. From the **Device restart behavior** list, select **Workstations**, and then click **Next**.

>     a. Doing so allows installation and restarts after the 7-day deadline on workstations only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    a. Doing so allows installation and restarts after the seven-day deadline on workstations only.
```

![Example of UI](images/waas-sccm-fig12.png)

## Use a task sequence to deploy Windows 10 updates

There are times when deploying a Windows 10 feature update requires the use of a task sequence—for example:

- **LTSC feature updates**. With the LTSC servicing branch, feature updates are never provided to the Windows clients themselves. Instead, feature updates must be installed like a traditional in-place upgrade.
- **Additional required tasks**. When deploying a feature update requires additional steps (e.g., suspending disk encryption, updating applications), you must use task sequences to orchestrate the additional steps. Servicing plans do not have the ability to add steps to their deployments.

Each time Microsoft releases a new Windows 10 build, it releases a new .iso file containing the latest build, as well. Regardless of the scenario that requires a task sequence to deploy the Windows 10 upgrade, the base process is the same. Start by creating an Operating System Upgrade Package in the Configuration Manager console:

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Software Library > Overview > Operating Systems > Operating System Upgrade Packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Software Library** > **Overview** > **Operating Systems** > **Operating System Upgrade Packages**.
```

1. On the Ribbon, in the **Create** group, click **Add Operating System Upgrade Package**.

1. On the **Data Source** page, type the path of the extracted .iso file of the new version of Windows 10 you’re deploying, and then click **Next**.

    In this example, the Windows 10 Enterprise 1607 installation media is deployed to \\\contoso-cm01\\Sources\Operating Systems\\Windows 10 Enterprise\\Windows 10 Enterprise - Version 1607.

1. On the **General** page, in the **Name** field, type the name of the folder (**Windows 10 Enterprise - Version 1607** in this example). Set the **Version** to **1607**, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Summary** page, click **Next** to create the package.

1. On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.

Now that the operating system upgrade package has been created, the content in that package must be distributed to the correct distribution points so that the clients can access the content. Complete the following steps to distribute the package content to distribution points:

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Software Library > Overview > Operating Systems > Operating System Upgrade Packages, and then select the **Windows 10 Enterprise – Version 1607** software upgrade package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Software Library** > **Overview** > **Operating Systems** > **Operating System Upgrade Packages**, and then select the **Windows 10 Enterprise – Version 1607** software upgrade package.
```

1. On the Ribbon, in the **Deployment group**, click **Distribute Content**.

1. In the Distribute Content Wizard, on the **General** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Content Destination** page, click **Add**, and then click **Distribution Point**.

1. In the **Add Distribution Points** dialog box, select the distribution point that will serve the clients receiving this package, and then click **OK**.

1. On the **Content Destination** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Summary** page, click **Next** to distribute the content to the selected distribution point.

1. On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.

Now that the upgrade package has been created and its contents distributed, create the task sequence that will use it. Complete the following steps to create the task sequence, using the previously created deployment package:

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Software Library > Overview > Operating Systems > Task Sequences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Software Library** > **Overview** > **Operating Systems** > **Task Sequences**.
```

1. On the **Upgrade the Windows Operating system** page, click **Browse**, select the deployment package you created in the previous steps, and then click **OK**.

1. Click **Next**.

1. On the **Include Updates** page, select **Available for installation – All software updates**, and then click **Next**.

1. On the **Install Applications** page, click **Next**.

1. On the **Summary** page, click **Next** to create the task sequence.

1. On the **Completion** page, click **Close**.

With the task sequence created, you’re ready to deploy it. If you’re using this method to deploy most of your Windows 10 feature updates, you may want to create deployment rings to stage the deployment of this task sequence, with delays appropriate for the respective deployment ring. In this example, you deploy the task sequence to the **Ring 4 Broad business users collection**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This process deploys a Windows 10 operating system feature update to the affected devices. If you’re testing, be sure to select the collection to which you deploy this task sequence carefully.

### To deploy your task sequence

> 1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to Software Library > Overview > Operating Systems > Task Sequences, and then select the **Upgrade Windows 10 Enterprise – Version 1607** task sequence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the Configuration Manager console, go to **Software Library** > **Overview** > **Operating Systems** > **Task Sequences**, and then select the **Upgrade Windows 10 Enterprise – Version 1607** task sequence.
```

> [Manage Windows as a service using Microsoft Endpoint Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service)

Reviewer: Updating to the correct page title:
```suggestion
[Manage Windows as a service using Configuration Manager](https://docs.microsoft.com/configmgr/osd/deploy-use/manage-windows-as-a-service)
```
